So no matter how well you set up your
data science team, and no matter how nice
the personalities are, there will always
be some potential internal difficulties.
Some of these are related to personalities
and interactions between people.
Some of them are related to
the way data scientists and
data engineers tend to work.
So, it's up to you to sort of set up an
environment where these sorts of problems
are minimized and it's possible to sort
of keep the process moving as quickly and
as sort of friendly way as possible.
So the first thing they can often happen
is there can be interpersonal conflict.
Now this happens in any organization, but
obviously when you're dealing with sort of
heavily quantitative folks who often
are maybe a little bit introverted and
maybe have a little bit less interpersonal
interaction than people in other sort of
external units might have, you can
have some difficulties of interaction.
So I think it's very helpful to right
up front have a policy on the Code
of Conduct.
This policy can cover all sorts of things,
but it should definitely
cover all of the biggies.
Obviously you don't want to any
sort of put downs on the basis of
sexual orientation or on the basis
of race or on the basis of sex.
All that sort of thing can be
built into the policy, but
it can also cover more subtle things and
data science specific things.
So for example, if there's going to be
code review, if one person is gonna review
someone else's code, you might set up the
parameters for how that's gonna happen.
Are they going to make the suggestions?
Are they going to immediately submit
changes or fixes to people's code?
Are they gonna do that in a way where
they communicate with the person who
originally wrote the code or not?
When people are reviewing
each other's code and
in group meeting how are they
supposed to communicate?
Are they supposed to be critical?
How are they supposed to be impartial?
How are they supposed to
interact with each other?
Now this seems a little bit pedantic
to have these sorts of things set up in
advance, this sort of policy, but
it can really save you a lot
of trouble in the end run.
If you up front explain,
here are the exceptions for
how our organization is gonna run.
It also helps, in the data science
organization, like I said several times,
there's often uncomfortable truths
that you discover with data.
Whether it's something you
didn't quite expect or
a whether its a product or
a machine learning algorithm that failed.
And so having a Code of
Contact in place to prevent
personal hurt feelings Is
a critical component of this.
In that Code of Conduct it also makes
a lot of sense to explain what you mean by
success and failure.
So, if you only define success by
the machine learning algorithm works or
the software never has bugs in it or
the hardware never goes down,
there will be a lot of failure.
But if you define success
as identifying problems,
tackling those problems, and not always
getting an answer that everyone expects.
You kind of reduce the pressure on any
individual analysis, and that allows
people to act sort of more impartially,
really let the data speak for itself.
In addition to this policy you
need to have open communication.
Allow people to communicate directly
with you, and with each other,
about whether that policy
is being enforced.
And make sure that they feel empowered to
have that conversation with each other.
This is really critically important,
both in a general sense, but
also very specifically for data science.
It needs to be a policy that open
criticism of each others data analysis,
or other people's data infrastructure,
is accepted and embraced.
But at the same time, that criticism
isn't made to make people feel awful or
isn't used to hurt people, it's just
used to improve the entire process.
So that if you organize it in that way,
people will be open to criticism and
they'll be willing to sort of make
changes if they don't feel like
it's gonna hurt their job and
their job prospects.
The other thing is,
in the extreme circumstance where people
are not adhering to the Code of Conduct,
for either sort of general purpose reasons
or for data science specific reasons,
it's very useful to have outlined what
are the steps that are gonna take place.
What's the enforcement?
Whether it's something like,
I'm gonna point out when you're
behaving incorrectly in a code review.
Or whether it's something
like at a certain stage,
you'll be barred from coming to this
meeting for this period of time.
Whatever it is that you need to establish.
It's better to say it up front,
rather than to invent policies on the fly
when dealing with a data science team,
especially when you're dealing with
diverse people who have different
expertise, and maybe different
expectations about what's going on.
Another thing that you need to deal with,
or
another problem that often comes up
internally, is inter-meeting slowdowns.
So especially if you've established
regular individual meetings,
regular group meetings, you hope to see
progress at each of those meetings.
You hope to see problems getting solved or
at least tackled.
But sometimes that slows down,
and like I mentioned,
that can often be for
very trivial reasons.
There's a little bug in the code and
you just can't see it.
So you want somebody else to take a look
at your code and help you fix it and
get unstuck.
So the key here is to
identify the core issues.
What's the real problem?
Is it that the person
isn't self motivating?
Is it that they're not chasing,
they don't know where to go to look for
the right answers?
Is it that the interaction between the
data engineers and the data scientists, or
the data scientists and
the external people, it's not happening?
So you can either deal with that by
increasing your interaction, getting more
directly involved, emailing to ask
questions about how things are going.
That's sort of a delicate balance, because
like I mentioned, data scientists and
data engineers need long
periods of uninterrupted time
in order to actually solve these sort of
quite technical challenging problems.
It's also useful to sort of
check on people's motivation.
So you might have a data scientist who's
working with, say, the market team,
but they don't really like marketing.
They would much rather be
involved with a different team,
they'd rather be involved with product.
And they'd like to be building
data science products that can be
externally used.
And if you don't identify quickly
that their motivation is flogging,
it can be very hard for
the to get going again.
Given the frustrating
nature of data science and
data engineering for the people that
are doing it, motivation is critical.
So identifying and
fixing problems with motivation is one of
the key jobs of the data science manager.
So this is comes back to
the idea of frustration.
So, frustration is something that will
always come up with data science teams.
Both people externally being frustrated
with the data science team for
not getting the answer that they wanted,
and frustration internally
because the stupid software isn't
working the way you wanted it to.
And so a way to fix that problem,
or to keep that problem going,
is to remember to use lots of
positive feedback whenever
success are there you
need to celebrate them.
Help people keep going,
keep being excited about coming in and
working on those data science problems.
But also impartial feedback.
So the key there is to talk about
the code, talk about the hardware,
don't talk about the person.
Always sort of focus on the problem and
how the problem's gonna be fixed.
And again, not to say that
problems are an issue that will
cause you to have difficulties
with your employment.
Like if If the machine learning algorithm
isn't working, that doesn't mean that
you're gonna be done, it means we're gonna
try another machine learning algorithm, or
we're gonna get a different data set, or
we're try to tackle a different problem.
That will keep people motivated and
not make them fear that if they don't do
the analysis in a certain way, they
won't be able to sort of keep their job.
So, motivation is a huge component of
keeping an internal data science team
going.